# Cybersecurity Terms - Spaced Repetition Cards
#flashcards 
## Authentication & Access Control

Security principle that ensures someone cannot deny having performed an action or sent a message. It provides proof of the origin and integrity of data, preventing parties from falsely denying their involvement.
?
Non-repudiation

Digital fingerprint - a fixed-size string of characters generated by a cryptographic hash function that uniquely represents data.
?
Hash digest

Provides a chronological record of all user activities that can be used to trace changes, unauthorized access, or anomalies back to a specific user or point in time.
?
Audit Trail

Security measure that ensures all user activities are properly tracked and recorded.
?
Accounting

A set of rules and policies that are used to dictate what actions users can perform once verified.
?
Authorization

## Security Controls

The technologies, hardware and software mechanisms that are implemented to manage and reduce risks.
?
Technical controls

Involve the strategic planning and governance side of security.
?
Managerial controls (Administrative controls)

Procedures and measures that are designed to protect data on a day to day basis and are mainly governed by internal processes and human actions.
?
Operational Controls

Tangible, real-world measures taken to protect assets.
?
Physical controls

Proactive measures implemented to thwart potential security threats or breaches.
?
Preventive Controls

Aim to discourage potential attackers by making the effort seem less appealing or more challenging.
?
Deterrent Controls

Monitor and alert organizations to malicious activities as they occur or shortly thereafter.
?
Detective Controls

Alternative measures that are implemented when primary security controls are not feasible or effective.
?
Compensating Controls

Often rooted in policy or documentation and set the standards for behavior within an organization.
?
Directive Controls

## Threats & Attacks

Sophisticated piece of malware that was designed to sabotage the Iranian government's nuclear program.
?
Stuxnet Worm

Cybersecurity threats that originate from within the organization.
?
Insider Threats

The means or pathway by which an attacker can gain unauthorized access to a computer or network to deliver a malicious payload or carry out an unwanted action.
?
Threat Vector

Encompasses all the various points where an unauthorized user can try to enter data or extract data from an environment.
?
Attack Surface

Set of vulnerabilities in Bluetooth technology that can allow an attacker to take over devices or spread malware.
?
BlueBorne

Type of Denial of Service attack that targets Bluetooth-enabled devices by sending a specially crafted Logical Link Control and Adaption Protocol packet to a target device.
?
BlueSmack

Specific methods and patterns of activities or behaviors associated with a particular threat actor or group of threat actors.
?
Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (TTPs)

## Deception Technologies

Designed to mislead, confuse and divert attackers from critical assets while simultaneously detecting and neutralizing threats.
?
Deceptive and Disruption Technologies

Fake DNS entries introduced into a systems DNS server.
?
Bogus DNS

Fake folder and files placed within a systems storage.
?
Decoy Directories

Used in websites to present ever-changing content to web crawlers to confuse and slow down the threat actor.
?
Dynamic Page Generation

Security mechanism where specific services or ports on a network device remain closed until a specific outbound traffic pattern is detected.
?
Port Triggering

System can respond to an attackers network scan attempt by sending out fake telemetry or network data.
?
Fake Telemetry Data

## Physical Security

Double-door system that is designed with two doors that are electronically controlled to ensure that only one door can be opened at a given time.
?
Access Control Vestibule

Person with legitimate access intentionally allows another person without authorization to enter a secure area with them.
?
Piggybacking

Unauthorized person follows someone with legitimate access to the secure space without their knowledge or consent.
?
Tailgating

Physical security control that is designed to secure entryways by restricting and regulating access to particular space or property.
?
Door Locks

The rate that the system authenticates a user as valid, even though that person should not have been granted access to the system.
?
False Acceptance Rate (FAR)

Occurs any time the biometrics system denies a user who should have been allowed access to the system.
?
False Rejection Rate (FRR)

More commonly called Crossover error rate (CER) which uses a measure of the effectiveness of a given biometrics system to achieve a balance.
?
Equal Error Rate (EER)

Refers to copying the data from an RFID or NFC card or badge onto another card or device.
?
Access Badge Cloning

## Social Engineering

Manipulative strategy that exploits human psychology to gain unauthorized access to systems, data, or physical spaces.
?
Social Engineering

The power or right to give orders make decisions and enforce obedience.
?
Authority

Compelling sense of immediacy or time-sensitivity that drives individuals to act swiftly or prioritize certain actions.
?
Urgency

Psychological phenomenon where individuals look to the behaviors and actions of others to determine their own decisions or actions in similar situations.
?
Social Proof

Psychological pressure people feel when they believe a product, opportunity, or resource is limited or in short supply.
?
Scarcity

It is associated with being nice, friendly, and socially accepted by others.
?
Likability

Feeling afraid of someone or something, as likely to be dangerous, painful, or threatening.
?
Fear

An attack where an adversary assumes the identity of another person to gain unauthorized access to resources or steal sensitive data.
?
Impersonation

Specific form of impersonation where an attacker pretends to represent a legitimate company or brand.
?
Brand Impersonation

A form of cyber attack where an attacker registers a domain name that is similar to a popular website but contains some kind of common typographical errors.
?
Typosquatting

Targeted form of cyber attack where attackers compromise a specific website or service that their target is known to use.
?
Watering Hole Attacks

A form of social engineering attack where cybercriminals create a fabricated scenario or false identity to manipulate victims into divulging sensitive information, granting unauthorized access, or performing actions that compromise security.
?
Pretexting

## Phishing Attacks

Fraudulent attack using deceptive emails from trusted sources to trick individuals into disclosing personal information like passwords and credit card numbers.
?
Phishing

Used by cybercriminals who are more tightly focused on a specific group of individuals or organizations.
?
Spear phishing

Form of spear phishing that targets high-profile individuals, like CEOs or CFOs.
?
Whaling

Advanced phishing attack that leverages internal email accounts within a company into carrying out malicious actions for the attacker.
?
Business Email Compromise (BEC)

Phone-based attack in which the attacker deceives victims into divulging personal or financial information.
?
Vishing (voice phishing)

Attack that uses text messages to deceive individuals into sharing their personal information.
?
Smishing (SMS Phishing)

Vital tool for educating individuals about phishing risks and how to recognize potential phishing attempts in user security awareness training.
?
Anti-phishing campaign

## Fraud & Deception

The wrongful or criminal deception intended to result in financial or personal gain.
?
Fraud

The use by one person of another person's information without authorization, to commit a crime or to deceive or defraud that other person or a third person.
?
Identity Fraud

A fraudulent or deceptive act or operation.
?
Scam

A scam in which a person is tricked into paying for a fake invoice for a service or product that they did not order.
?
Invoice Scam

Coordinated efforts to affect public perception or behavior toward a particular cause, individual, or group.
?
Influence Campaigns

Inaccurate information shared unintentionally.
?
Misinformation

Intentional spread of false information to deceive or mislead.
?
Disinformation

Manipulating a situation or creating a distraction to steal valuable items or information.
?
Diversion Theft

Malicious deception that is often spread through social media, email, or other communication channels.
?
Hoax

Looking over someone's shoulder to gather personal information.
?
Shoulder Surfing

Searching through trash to find valuable information.
?
Dumpster Diving

The process of secretly listening to private conversations.
?
Eavesdropping

Planting a malware-infected device for a victim to find and unintentionally introduce malware to their organization's system.
?
Baiting

## Malware & Attack Vectors

Any software that is designed to infiltrate a computer system without the user's knowledge.
?
Malware

A means by which an attacker gains access to a computer to infect the system with malware.
?
Attack Vector

Malicious software that attaches to clean files and spreads into a computer system.
?
Virus

## Advanced Malware Types

Standalone malware programs that replicate and spread to other systems by exploiting software vulnerabilities.
?
Worms

Malicious programs which appear to be legitimate software that allow unauthorized access to a victims system when executed.
?
Trojans

Encrypts a users data and holds it hostage until a ransom is paid to the attacker for decryption.
?
Ransomware

Compromised computers that are remotely controlled by attackers and used in coordination to form a botnet.
?
Zombies

Network of zombies and are often used for DDoS attacks, spam distribution, or cryptocurrency mining.
?
Botnet

Malicious tools that hide their activities and operate at the OS level to allow for ongoing privileged access.
?
Rootkits

Malicious means of bypassing normal authentication processes to gain unauthorized access to a system.
?
Backdoors

Embed code placed in legitimate programs that executes a malicious action when a specific condition or trigger occurs.
?
Logic Bombs

Record a users keystrokes to capture passwords or other sensitive information.
?
Keyloggers

Secretly monitors and gathers user information or activities and sends data to third parties.
?
Spyware

Unnecessary or pre-installed software that consumes system resources and space without offering any value to the user.
?
Bloatware

Type of Trojan that is widely used by modern attackers because it provides the attacker with remote control of a victim machine.
?
Remote Access Trojan (RAT)

Responsible for managing and coordinating the activities of other nodes or devices within a network.
?
Command and Control Node

## Virus Types & Exploitation Techniques

Stored in the first sector of a hard drive and is then loaded into memory whenever the computer boots up.
?
Boot Sector Virus

A form of code that allows a virus to be embedded inside another document so that when that document is opened by the user, the virus is executed.
?
Macro Virus

Tries to find executable or application files to infect with their malicious code.
?
Program Virus

A combination of a boot sector type virus and a program virus.
?
Multipartite Virus

Designed to hide itself from being detected by encrypting its malicious code or payloads to avoid detection by any antivirus software.
?
Encrypted Virus

Advanced version of an encrypted virus, but instead of just encrypting the contents, it will actually change the virus's code each time it is executed by altering the decryption module in order for it to evade detection.
?
Polymorphic Virus

Able to rewrite itself entirely before it attempts to infect a given file.
?
Metamorphic Virus

Not necessarily a specific type of virus as much as it is a technique used to prevent the virus from being detected by the anti-virus software.
?
Stealth Virus

Have a layer of protection to confuse a program or a person who's trying to analyze it.
?
Armored Virus

A form of technical social engineering that attempts to scare end users into taking undesirable action on their system.
?
Hoax (technical definition)

## Advanced Exploitation Techniques

Allows a system to control access to things like device drivers, sound card, and monitor.
?
Kernel Mode

Technique used to run arbitrary code within the address space of another process by forcing it to load a dynamic-link library.
?
DLL Injection

Software code that is placed between two components.
?
Shim

Insecure coding practice that was used by programmers to provide a joke or a gag gift to the users.
?
Easter Egg

Describes the specific method by which malware code infects a target host.
?
Exploit Technique

Used to create a process in the system memory without relying on the local file system of the infected host.
?
Fileless Malware

Initiates or runs other malware forms within a payload on an infected host.
?
Dropper

Retrieves additional tools post the initial infection facilitated by a dropper.
?
Downloaders

Encompasses lightweight code meant to execute an exploit on a given target.
?
Shellcode

Used to help the threat actor prolong unauthorized access to a system by hiding any evidence of malicious activities.
?
Concealment

A strategy adopted by many advanced persistent threats and criminal organizations.
?
Living Off the Land

## Data Protection & Management

Process of safeguarding important information from corruption compromise, or loss.
?
Data Protection

Information is subject to the laws and governance structures within the nation where it is collected.
?
Data Sovereignty

Strategy for ensuring sensitive or critical information does not leave an organization.
?
Data Loss Prevention (DLP)

Category based on the organization's value and the sensitivity of the information if it were to be disclosed.
?
Data Classification

Any information that can result in a loss of security or a loss of advantage to a company if accessed by an unauthorized person.
?
Sensitive Data

Process of identifying the person responsible for the confidentiality, integrity, availability, and privacy of the information assets.
?
Data Ownership

Senior executive role that has the responsibility for maintaining the confidentiality, integrity, and availability, of the information asset.
?
Data Owner

Entity that holds responsibility for deciding the purposes and methods of data storage, collection, and usage, and for guaranteeing the legality of processes.
?
Data Controller

Group or individual hired by the data controller to help with tasks like collecting, storing, or analyzing data.
?
Data Processor

Focused on the quality of the data and the associated metadata.
?
Data Steward

Responsible for handling the management of the system on which the data assets are stored.
?
Data Custodian

Role that is responsible for the oversight of any kind of Privacy-Related data, like PII, SPI, or PHI.
?
Privacy Officer

## Data States

Refers to any data stored in database, file systems, or other storage systems.
?
Data at Rest

Refers to data actively moving from one location to another, such as across the internet or through a private network.
?
Data in Transit/Data in Motion

Refers to data in the process of being created, retrieved, updated, or deleted.
?
Data in Use

## Regulated & Sensitive Data Types

Information controlled by the laws, regulations, or industry standards.
?
Regulated Data

Any information that can be used to identify an individual.
?
Personal Identification Information (PII)

Any information about health status, provision of healthcare or payment for healthcare that can be linked to a specific individual.
?
Protected Health Information (PHI)

Type of confidential business information that provides a company with a competitive edge.
?
Trade Secrets

Creations of the mind, such as inventions, literary and artistic works, designs, and symbols.
?
Intellectual Property (IP)

Includes any data related to legal proceedings, contracts, or regulatory compliance.
?
Legal Information

Includes data related to an organization's financial transactions, such as sales records, invoices, tax documents, and bank statements.
?
Financial Information

## Data Formats

Information that can be understood by humans without the need for a machine or software.
?
Human-readable Data

Information that requires a machine or software to interpret.
?
Non-human Readable Data

## Data Protection Techniques

Involves setting up virtual boundaries to restrict data access based on geographic location.
?
Geographic Restrictions (Geofencing)

Fundamental data security method that transforms readable data (plaintext) into unreadable data (ciphertext) using an algorithm and an encryption key.
?
Encryption

Technique that converts data into a fixed size of numerical or alphanumeric characters, known as a hash value.
?
Hashing

Involves replacing some or all of the data in a field with a placeholder, such as "x", to conceal the original content.
?
Masking

Replaces sensitive data with non-sensitive substitutes, known as tokens.
?
Tokenization

Involves making data unclear or unintelligible, making it difficult for unauthorized users to understand.
?
Obfuscation

Involves dividing a network into separate segments, each with its own security controls.
?
Segmentation

Involve defining who has access to specific data and what they can do with it.
?
Permission Restrictions

## Data Loss Prevention Systems

Set up to monitor the data of a system while it's in use, in transit, or at rest in order to detect any attempts to steal the data.
?
Data Loss Prevention (DLP)

A piece of software that's installed on a workstation or a laptop, and it's going to monitor the data that's in use on that computer.
?
Endpoint DLP System

A piece of software or hardware that's a solution placed at the perimeter of the network to detect data in transit.
?
Network DLP System

A software that is installed on a server in the data center and inspects the data while it's at rest on the server.
?
Storage DLP

Usually offered as software-as-a-service, and it's part of the cloud service and storage needs.
?
Cloud-based DLP System